Good morning everyone. This is
Nidhi, this is Sheila. This is
Divya. We are here to present
our data project water quality
analysis. The aim of our project
is.
Classifying of water as safer,
unsafe based on the minerals
present, and so we are given
compounds aquarium modularly,
our Senate etcetera and all our
float values. So given those
values we have to put it in the
water is safe or not. That is
safe is 1 and.
It is.
Until the zero.
And I don't I alternate aim of
our project is, uh, how we
balance how we deal with
imbalance data. Since imbalanced
data is a major problem with all
the algorithms we applied PCA
and smart in order to.
Generate a method uh, which
nullifies the effect of
imbalanced data.
Uh so. And we tried different
models like logistic regression,
SVM, decision trees, random
forest and our aim is to see how
we can, how we can deal with the
class imbalance given the data.
So we first performed EDA where
we had to clean the data set and
we thoroughly analyzed how the
data is distributed and that's
where we were able to identify
there's a class imbalance.
Umm.
As the first uh, we see logistic
regression. Uh, easily logistic
regression and we perform uh, we
scale the data and then we train
the logistic regression with the
scale data with ECA and with PCA
plus mode. So what we observed
was that the model.
Did not have a good accuracy
with only PCA, but when it hired
with only PCA the accuracy
dropped and the recall of the
minority class also was like a
very less like 34%. But then
using PCA plus mode boosted up
the recall of the minority class
and the F1 score same as the
case with SVM. It performed
better with smart and PCA. This
decision tree also performed
well. It's modern PCA with
respect to minority class and.
We've similarly with and. The
reason we we think PC and plus
mode performs better is because
because of number of features
and a class imbalance, when we
apply PCA on this PPA does not
do that well when treating with
class and balance. So what we do
is we perform PCA and then we
use more to synthetically
oversample the minority class.
This way the accuracy is
improved do improve random
forest. Is one such algorithm
that does not get affected with
class imbalance and it gives an
accuracy of .93%.
And there's good of .85% we aim
to build an ensemble model which
gives similar or similar
accuracy and if one hence we
build an ensample model with
with linear logistic regression,
decision trees and SVM and we
train it on this more data set.
More plus PCA data and we saw
that it was performing as good
as the random forest. So that
what we would like to say here
is that using PCA plus mode on
week learners for an ensemble
model does help in increasing
the accuracy and it does help
you with in class.
But.
Thank you.
OK, so our data set contains
around seven 7999 rows and 21
columns where one column is is
the is the target loss. So when
when we were running performing
a RDM we observed that that is
we were able to identify if
there was a class in balance and
we were able to identify how
many.
Ohh, the minerals had a
threshold above a particular
value which would identify them
as safe or not which we're
identifying. If they were
dangerous or not dangerous. So
we found that fluoride, selenium
and uranium were in the entire
data set, did not cross the
threshold value.
Hope you also observe that some
of there was some of the nine
values present. Uh. So assuming
that the concentration of those
minerals were very small to be,
uh, monitored, we attended that
with zero.
Killers are cold, uh, indrani.
So the models they train on as
far as the logistic regression
and then we perform a try to see
the how the model perform with
scaling PC and with PC address
mode then we did for SVM and as
which is a classical like a very
classic classification model and
we then moved on to naive bias
which because naive vice has a
property that it teaches it. If
all your features are
independent of each other and it
gives equal importance to all
the features and then we move
them to random forest.
Decision trees and from a
decision tree is CMLR is we what
we build the ensemble model
with.
And then we use that KN and XG
boost. XG Boost is robust to
class imbalance, so it also
performed pretty well on the
data set.
And thank you.